## Russian Trolls in the 2016 US Election

This project is an analysis of nearly 3 million tweets associated with the Internet Research Agency (IRA), a known Russian agency tasked with interfering in US politics. A forewarning is that this repo, when cloned and runs on your local computer will download approximately 1.4GBs of data relevant to this project and necessary for proper analysis. Personally, I'd recommend that you check out my <a href="https://ebuxheli-russiantrolls.netlify.com">website</a> which provides you with an in depth analysis of the data without having to download large files.

The Tweets that I analyzed here are associated with accounts Twitter found to belong to the IRA which have now been shut down. The data that I used was compiled and cleaned by FiveThirtyEight and Clemson University to make it easier to analyze and parse. While I found that there were some incongruities in the dataset with some of the variables, in general the content and data published seemed to be very reliable. I chose to analyze Tweets relevant to the timeframe surrounding the 2016 US Presidential Election. In order to do so, I filtered the data to show Tweets from when Trump initially announced his candidacy on June 16th, 2015 until one year after her took the office of the presidency on January 20th, 2018.

In using the data, I tried to tell some stories that I felt were relevant to what the frequency and clustering of Tweets led us to and provided references to some of Trump's Tweets and historical events relevant to the time frame that their were spikes in the number of tweets. Additionally, I looked at some of Trump's most popular phrases to see if there were any interesting trends among the IRA trolls when using the words of the President.

One event that I found to be particularly notable in my chosen time frame was the Charlottesville Riot in mid-August of 2017. The effects of this event on Twitter could be seen across every category that I observed. Some phrases which seemed unrelated to the proceedings at this event also showed some slight correlation which may have been caused by the increased frequency of overall Tweets during these impactful times which carried effects beyond their relevant topics and phrases.

The background information necessary for understanding the scope and jargon of this project can be found on my website as you make your way through various articles. My website can be found <a href="https://ebuxheli-russiantrolls.netlify.com">here</a>. I've also linked my data source and the inspiration for this project down below. While this was inspired by a FiveThirtyEight article, I believe that I have made this project my own. I hope that you enjoy perusing the data.

Data Source: <a href="https://github.com/fivethirtyeight/russian-troll-tweets/">FiveThirtyEight and Clemson University</a>  
Article: <a href="https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/why-were-sharing-3-million-russian-troll-tweets/">FiveThirtyEight</a>
